Please check the resources section of this lecture.
There is a PDF download available.
In this lecture, we are going to continue looking at securing WordPress.
We are going to look at the main WordPress configuration file, WP config DOT, as well as updating
WordPress.
The main WordPress configuration file is WP config DOT.
It's located in your site's public underscore HTML directory.
There is no need to move WP config to the parent directory.
We have secured the WP config file using an engine X location directive.
Any visitor attempting to access WP config will be denied access to that particular file along listing
of your sites public HTML directory or display.
The ownership and permissions of the WP config for the ownership should be your user and the web server
w w w hyphen data.
The permissions should be six four for your user can read and write the web server and the other users
can only read the file from a security point of view.
Permissions of 644 are fine for the WP config file, but these permissions will become a problem when
configuring certain caching and security plugins.
The reason being that certain plugins need to write to the WP config file and with permissions of 644
they will be unable to do this when configuring plug ins that need to write to the WP config file.
Change the permissions to six six for permissions of 66 for will allow the web server to write to the
WP config file.
Once you have finished configuring the plugins, change the permissions back to six for for with the
permissions that we have set for the WordPress files and directories, an automatic update will not
be possible.
Trying to update WordPress from the dashboard will also fail due to our strict permissions.
We do, however, want to be notified of WordPress updates when we log in to the WordPress dashboard.
So what we do is we add the following two lines to the WP config file.
What the defined WP auto update core will attempt to do is automatically update WordPress.
It will be unable to do this because of our strict permissions.
We want to open up config using nano.
You can scroll to the end of the file and we can add automatic core updates as our comment and then
Valon define WP Auto Update call.
Once you've added those two lines, you can exit saving your changes.
As I've already mentioned, updating WordPress using the dashboard will fail.
The easiest way of updating WordPress is to use the WordPress command line interface.
Looking at the WordPress dashboard, you can see that there is an update available.
You'll also notice that an automated WordPress update has failed.
That is due to our strict permissions on our WordPress site.
So to update WordPress, we turn to the command line.
I want you to log into your server.
And once you've logged into your server, change to your site's public HTML directory.
The command is straightforward.
WP Corps Update.
Success WordPress updated successfully after updating WordPress, I recommend you restart FPM to clear
the up cache and then refresh the dashboard to reflect the changes sudo system ctrl restart and the
service we want to restart is if pm if I change back to my brother and I refresh the dashboard.
We are now running WordPress four point ninety six.
Once you've updated any themes and plugins, you can switch back to the command line, your home directory
and inside the home directory, run the WordPress permissions and ownership script to ensure that all
the files and directories inside public HTML have the correct permissions and ownership.
So that is the procedure you must follow whenever you log into your dashboard and you are notified of
a WordPress update.
The commands we used in this lecture to edit WP config changed your site's public HDMI directory and
open the file using NENO to update WordPress or to use any WP seal I command.
You must ensure you are in your sights.
Public HTML Directory to update WordPress WP Core Update.
Finally, after updating WordPress restart FPM Sudo system ctrl restart seven point zero IFN if PM.
In this lecture we looked at updating WordPress as well as WP config dot p.